Defined PackML Modes
Modes
The ANSI/ISA-88.00.01 standard provides a set of modes for equipment entities and 
procedural elements. This report establishes modes for automated machines that are 
considered different than the ANSI/ISA-88.00.01 procedural modes (automatic, 
semi-automatic, and manual). The ANSI/ISA-88.00.01 procedural modes describe the 
way procedures operate. Procedural modes are not common in automated machinery. 
They are provided for in this report by noting they may exist, but are not considered in 
the scope of this work and are not included in the tag table.
For automated machines, the example in this report establishes unit/machine modes in 
order to allow a machine designer to adjust the set of states, state commands and state 
transitions a machine may follow given different operating circumstances. The set of 
defined unit/machine control modes is shown in Figure 4 and described below.
The 2013 revision to this document changed producing mode to production mode.

Unit/Machine control modes

A unit/mMachine control mode determines the subset of states, state commands, and state 
transitions that determine the strategy for carrying out a unit/machine’s process.
Typical unit/machine control modes are production, maintenance, manual, clean in place, 
run out, semi-auto, dry cycle, etc. The distinguishing elements between these unit control 
modes are the selected subset of states, state commands, and state transitions.
The ordered procedures that control the states will be unique for the unit/machine control 
mode that the unit/machine is in. For example, in a “production” unit/machine control mode 
the definition of “execute” in a filling machine will mean it is “producing” product. In the 
“manual” unit/machine control mode the definition of the “executing” state may be jogging 
or indexing. The “execute” state defines the functional operation of the unit/machine control 
mode. States of identical names may have different functions in different unit/machine 
control modes
Examples of unit/machine control modes are:

Production mode - This represents the mode which is utilized for routine production. 
The machine executes relevant logic in response to commands which are either entered 
directly by the operator or issued by another supervisory system.

Maintenance mode - This mode may allow suitably authorized personnel the ability to run 
an individual machine independent of other machines in a production line. This mode would 
typically be used for fault finding, machine trials or testing operational improvements. This 
mode would also allow the speed of the machine to be adjusted (where this feature is 
available).

Manual mode - This provides direct control of individual machine modules. This feature is 
available depending upon the mechanical constraints of the mechanisms being exercised. 
This feature may be used for the commissioning of individual drives, verifying the operation 
of synchronized drives, testing the drive as a result of modifying parameters etc.

Unit/Machine control mode management

Automated machinery has unit/machine control modes other than “production”, as noted 
earlier. Each unit/machine control mode has its own state model. In order to manage the 
change from one mode to the next, a method of mode management must be defined. The 
mode management method determines how, and in what state a machine may change 
unit/machine control modes; i.e. the mode management method includes interlocks that 
prevent the machine changing unit/machine control modes when in inappropriate states.
Unit/machine control mode management enables the machine designer to manage 
unit/machine control mode transitions. Specification on transitions between unit/machine 
control modes is left to the user, but typical transition points are at wait states. The 
specification of the unit/machine control mode manager is such that no state or control 
functions are carried out in this upper level routine. The intent of the mode manager is to 
logically supervise when a change in mode can be done, command a mode change, and 
report status of the change request. All considerations of a mode manager must be 
consistent with prevailing safe practices and standards.
Transitions between unit/machine control modes can occur at only pre-programmed states:
	o As a result of a local or remote operator command.
	o As a result of a remote request from another automated unit.
	o As a result of a state change. This is generated by change of state of one or a number 
		of machine conditions, either directly from I/O or completion of a logic method. For 
		example, if a filling machine has completed its production run in “PRODUCTION” mode 
		of a given number of cases it may change to the “CLEANING” mode to begin a clean cycle.
	o When a unit/machine control mode change takes place, a machine state change is NOT 
		allowed to occur at the same time. Mode transitions must take place in a state that is 
		common to both modes. This is necessary to avoid unintended machine sequences from 
		taking place.

6		Common unit/machine mode examples
6.1		Production mode
The base state model above can be used to define a production mode that is used in order to 
deliver control of routine processing and production. It is recognized that machines also require 
maintenance, calibration and setting up. To address this requirement two example modes of 
operation are shown below: maintenance and manual. Because there can be any number of 
possible modes for an automated machine, a user mode example is also shown. The user mode 
example is based on the Weihenstephan PDA (production data acquisition) standard.

6.2 Maintenance mode
Maintenance mode allows suitably authorized personnel the ability to run an individual machine 
independent of other machines in a production line. This would typically be used for fault finding, 
machine trials or testing operational improvements. It is expected that, because the machine will 
generally operate in its usual manner, it will need to undergo some or all of its routine starting up 
procedures. Maintenance mode will follow a recognized unit state model.

6.3 Manual mode
Manual mode provides suitably authorized personnel the ability to operate individual subordinate 
equipment controls (such as drive logic) within the machine under manual pushbutton control. 
Such controls in this mode may be on a "hold-to-run" basis such that removal of the run signal will 
cause the drive to be stopped. The ability to perform specific functions will be dependent upon 
mechanical constraints and interlocks. Manual mode will be of particular use for setting up the 
machine to work.

6.4 User definable modes
Any unit control mode can be defined which provides a required function for the machine. 
The unit control mode provides for suitably authorized personnel operating the machine under 
pushbutton control, or for a remote system operating the machine as part of an integrated work 
center. This report recommends the approach in which all unit control modes are based on a fixed 
set of enumerated machine states. The “name” of the state(s) may be customized to provide the 
operator with an intuitive or descriptive name for the state(s), but the function of the state(s) is 
consistent with, and a subset of, the general definition of the base state model.

mode controls as described in ANSI/ISA-TR88.00.02-2015

